contributing.md, before:

## Bugs

If you are submitting a bug, please create a [jsfiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/)
demonstrating the issue before opening a ticket on GitHub.

## Contributing

Fork the library, install grunt, and install dependencies.
Note that all pull requests will require a signed [CLA (Contributor License Agreement)](https://openjsf.org/about/the-openjs-foundation-cla/).

```
npm install -g grunt-cli
npm install
```

Additions to `moment-timezone.js` or `moment-timezone-utils.js` should have matching tests in
`/tests/moment-timezone/`.

## Running tests

```sh
grunt nodeunit           # run all tests (includes the 3 commands below)
grunt nodeunit:core      # run all core tests
grunt nodeunit:zones     # run all zone tests
grunt nodeunit:countries # run all country tests
```

If all the tests are passing, submit a pull request.

## Compiling data

There are several steps to compiling the timezone data. These have all been
bundled into one grunt task to make releases easy.

Besides the `node`, `npm`, and `grunt` dependencies, there are also a few unix
dependencies.

`curl`, `tar`, `zic`, and `zdump` are all required.

```
which curl tar zic zdump
```

To compile the latest IANA release, run `grunt data`.

To compile a specific tagged release, run `grunt data:2014d`, replacing `2014d`
with the desired release tag.

The compilation process involves 8 steps, each of which can be run separately.
For each of the steps, a tag name can be passed to grunt. If no tag name was passed,
it defaults to the latest release.

Some tasks create files within the `temp` directory. These are only used by other
parts of the process and are ignored by git.

Other tasks create files in the `data` or `tests` directories. These files should
be committed to git.

### 1. Download data from iana.org/time-zones.

```
grunt data-download:2014d
```

This downloads the data to `temp/curl/2014d/data.tar.gz` and unzips into
`temp/download/2014d`.

### 2. Extract zone & country meta data

```
grunt data-meta:2014d
```

This task creates a JSON file containing a list of timezones and countries.
The extracted meta data can be used to list all timezones, list all countries, and filter zones by a country.

The output is saved in `data/meta/2014d.json`

Sample output:

```
{
    "countries": {
        "AD": {
            "name": "Andorra",
            "abbr": "AD",
            "zones": [
                "Europe/Andorra"
            ]
        },
        "AE": {
            "name": "United Arab Emirates",
            "abbr": "AE",
            "zones": [
                "Asia/Dubai"
            ]
        },
        ...
    },
    "zones": {
        "Europe/Andorra": {
            "name": "Europe/Andorra",
            "lat": 42.5,
            "long": 1.5167,
            "countries": [
                "AD"
            ],
            "comments": ""
        },
        "Asia/Dubai": {
            "name": "Asia/Dubai",
            "lat": 25.3,
            "long": 55.3,
            "countries": [
                "AE",
                "OM"
            ],
            "comments": ""
        },
        ...
    }
}
```

### 3. Compile the data to a binary format using `zic(8)`

```
grunt data-zic:2014d
```

This compiles each of the source files in the `temp/download/2014d` folder to
`temp/zic/2014d`.

An alternative path to the `zic` binary can be provided using the `--zic-path` option.

```
grunt data-zic:2014d --zic-path=/path/to/custom/zic
```

### 4. Dump the changes from the binary format into a text format using `zdump(8)`.

```
grunt data-zdump:2014d
```

This dumps a list of timezone changes for each zone in `temp/zic/2014d` to
`temp/zdump/2014d`.

> For each zone, print the time at the lowest possible time value, the time one
> day after the lowest possible time value, the times both one second before and
> exactly at each detected time discontinuity, the time at one day less than the
> highest possible time value, and the time at the highest possible time value.
>
> via `man zdump`

An alternative path to the `zdump` binary can be provided using the `--zdump-path` option.

```
grunt data-zdump:2014d --zdump-path=/path/to/custom/zdump
```


### 5. Collect the changes into a single JSON file.

```
grunt data-collect:2014d
```

The output from `zdump(8)` looks like this.

```
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Mar  9 09:59:59 2014 UTC = Sun Mar  9 01:59:59 2014 PST isdst=0
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Mar  9 10:00:00 2014 UTC = Sun Mar  9 03:00:00 2014 PDT isdst=1
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Nov  2 08:59:59 2014 UTC = Sun Nov  2 01:59:59 2014 PDT isdst=1
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Nov  2 09:00:00 2014 UTC = Sun Nov  2 01:00:00 2014 PST isdst=0
```

The `data-collect` task takes all the dumped zones, converts them to
moment-timezone's unpacked format, collects them into one object, and saves them
to `temp/collect/2014b.json`.

```
    ...
}, {
    "name": "America/Los_Angeles",
    "abbrs": [..."PST", "PDT", "PDT", "PST"...],
    "untils": [...1604221199000, 1604221200000, 1615715999000, 1615716000000...],
    "offsets": [...480, 420, 420, 480...]
}, {
    "name": "America/Louisville",
    ...
```

### 6. Remove duplicate entries.

```
grunt data-dedupe:2014d
```

`zdump(8)` prints a line for the times _one second before_ and _exactly at_
each time discontinuity. In order to save space, we remove the
_one second before_ entries.

The output is saved in `data/unpacked/2014d.json`.

### 7. Pack the data into the compressed format.

```
grunt data-pack:2014d
```

Pack each zone in `data/unpacked/2014d.json` and save in `data/packed/2014d.json`.

```
// unpacked
{
    "name"    : "America/Phoenix",
    "abbrs"   : ["MST", "MDT", "MST", "MDT", "MST", "MWT", "MST", "MWT", "MST", "MDT", "MST"],
    "untils"  : [-1633273200000, -1615132800000, -1601823600000, -1583683200000, -880210800000, -820519140000, -812653140000, -796845540000, -84380400000, -68659200000, null],
    "offsets" : [420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420]
}

// packed
"America/Phoenix|MST MDT MWT|70 60 60|01010202010|-261r0 1nX0 11B0 1nX0 SgN0 4Al1 Ap0 1db0 SWqX 1cL0"
```

### 8. Build tests for each zone.

```
grunt data-tests
```

Reads data from `temp/collect/latest.json` and constructs unit tests for each
zone. This uses `temp/collect/latest.json` instead of `data/unpacked/latest.json`
in order to test both the times _one second before_ and _exactly at_
each time discontinuity.

Without a version, this will write files to the `tests` directory.
If this is run with a specific version (`grunt data-tests:2014d`), the files will
be written to `temp/tests/<version>` instead.

### All tasks

For ease of use, all these tasks are bundled into one task. This is the preferred way
to compile the data.

```
grunt data       # run tasks 1-8 on the latest release
grunt data:2014c # run tasks 1-8 on the 2014c release
grunt data:2014d # run tasks 1-8 on the 2014d release
```



### Steps to release a new version

1. Create a new branch like release_0.X.X from master and do this:

```grunt data```

2. Change version in:

- package.json
- composer.json
- moment-timezone.js
- moment-timezone-utils.js

3. Do this:

```
grunt build
grunt uglify
npm run test
```

4. Open pull request from your branch into develop
5. Merge changes from your branch into develop branch
6. Merge changes from develop into master branch
7. Create a new release here https://github.com/moment/moment-timezone/releases
8. Do npm publish to publish changes to NPM
9. Also, you should update version of moment-timezone in package.json file of
this repository https://github.com/moment/momentjs.com to the latest version.
It will change version on the website https://momentjs.com/timezone/

Commit message:

docs: Add note about maintenance mode in contributing guide

contributing.md, after:

## Bugs

If you are submitting a bug, please create a [jsfiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/)
demonstrating the issue before opening a ticket on GitHub.

## Contributing code

:warning: Before you begin, note that Moment Timezone is in [maintenance-only mode](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/-project-status/).
Bug fixes and performance improvements will still be accepted, and IANA data updates
will continue to be released.

However, new features or API changes are **unlikely to be accepted** as pull requests.

For other types of code improvements, the process below should be followed.

---

Fork the library, install grunt, and install dependencies.
Note that all pull requests will require a signed [CLA (Contributor License Agreement)](https://openjsf.org/about/the-openjs-foundation-cla/).

```
npm install -g grunt-cli
npm install
```

Additions to `moment-timezone.js` or `moment-timezone-utils.js` should have matching tests in
`/tests/moment-timezone/`.

## Running tests

```sh
grunt nodeunit           # run all tests (includes the 3 commands below)
grunt nodeunit:core      # run all core tests
grunt nodeunit:zones     # run all zone tests
grunt nodeunit:countries # run all country tests
```

If all the tests are passing, submit a pull request.

## Compiling data

There are several steps to compiling the timezone data. These have all been
bundled into one grunt task to make releases easy.

Besides the `node`, `npm`, and `grunt` dependencies, there are also a few unix
dependencies.

`curl`, `tar`, `zic`, and `zdump` are all required.

```
which curl tar zic zdump
```

To compile the latest IANA release, run `grunt data`.

To compile a specific tagged release, run `grunt data:2014d`, replacing `2014d`
with the desired release tag.

The compilation process involves 8 steps, each of which can be run separately.
For each of the steps, a tag name can be passed to grunt. If no tag name was passed,
it defaults to the latest release.

Some tasks create files within the `temp` directory. These are only used by other
parts of the process and are ignored by git.

Other tasks create files in the `data` or `tests` directories. These files should
be committed to git.

### 1. Download data from iana.org/time-zones.

```
grunt data-download:2014d
```

This downloads the data to `temp/curl/2014d/data.tar.gz` and unzips into
`temp/download/2014d`.

### 2. Extract zone & country meta data

```
grunt data-meta:2014d
```

This task creates a JSON file containing a list of timezones and countries.
The extracted meta data can be used to list all timezones, list all countries, and filter zones by a country.

The output is saved in `data/meta/2014d.json`

Sample output:

```
{
    "countries": {
        "AD": {
            "name": "Andorra",
            "abbr": "AD",
            "zones": [
                "Europe/Andorra"
            ]
        },
        "AE": {
            "name": "United Arab Emirates",
            "abbr": "AE",
            "zones": [
                "Asia/Dubai"
            ]
        },
        ...
    },
    "zones": {
        "Europe/Andorra": {
            "name": "Europe/Andorra",
            "lat": 42.5,
            "long": 1.5167,
            "countries": [
                "AD"
            ],
            "comments": ""
        },
        "Asia/Dubai": {
            "name": "Asia/Dubai",
            "lat": 25.3,
            "long": 55.3,
            "countries": [
                "AE",
                "OM"
            ],
            "comments": ""
        },
        ...
    }
}
```

### 3. Compile the data to a binary format using `zic(8)`

```
grunt data-zic:2014d
```

This compiles each of the source files in the `temp/download/2014d` folder to
`temp/zic/2014d`.

An alternative path to the `zic` binary can be provided using the `--zic-path` option.

```
grunt data-zic:2014d --zic-path=/path/to/custom/zic
```

### 4. Dump the changes from the binary format into a text format using `zdump(8)`.

```
grunt data-zdump:2014d
```

This dumps a list of timezone changes for each zone in `temp/zic/2014d` to
`temp/zdump/2014d`.

> For each zone, print the time at the lowest possible time value, the time one
> day after the lowest possible time value, the times both one second before and
> exactly at each detected time discontinuity, the time at one day less than the
> highest possible time value, and the time at the highest possible time value.
>
> via `man zdump`

An alternative path to the `zdump` binary can be provided using the `--zdump-path` option.

```
grunt data-zdump:2014d --zdump-path=/path/to/custom/zdump
```


### 5. Collect the changes into a single JSON file.

```
grunt data-collect:2014d
```

The output from `zdump(8)` looks like this.

```
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Mar  9 09:59:59 2014 UTC = Sun Mar  9 01:59:59 2014 PST isdst=0
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Mar  9 10:00:00 2014 UTC = Sun Mar  9 03:00:00 2014 PDT isdst=1
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Nov  2 08:59:59 2014 UTC = Sun Nov  2 01:59:59 2014 PDT isdst=1
America/Los_Angeles  Sun Nov  2 09:00:00 2014 UTC = Sun Nov  2 01:00:00 2014 PST isdst=0
```

The `data-collect` task takes all the dumped zones, converts them to
moment-timezone's unpacked format, collects them into one object, and saves them
to `temp/collect/2014b.json`.

```
    ...
}, {
    "name": "America/Los_Angeles",
    "abbrs": [..."PST", "PDT", "PDT", "PST"...],
    "untils": [...1604221199000, 1604221200000, 1615715999000, 1615716000000...],
    "offsets": [...480, 420, 420, 480...]
}, {
    "name": "America/Louisville",
    ...
```

### 6. Remove duplicate entries.

```
grunt data-dedupe:2014d
```

`zdump(8)` prints a line for the times _one second before_ and _exactly at_
each time discontinuity. In order to save space, we remove the
_one second before_ entries.

The output is saved in `data/unpacked/2014d.json`.

### 7. Pack the data into the compressed format.

```
grunt data-pack:2014d
```

Pack each zone in `data/unpacked/2014d.json` and save in `data/packed/2014d.json`.

```
// unpacked
{
    "name"    : "America/Phoenix",
    "abbrs"   : ["MST", "MDT", "MST", "MDT", "MST", "MWT", "MST", "MWT", "MST", "MDT", "MST"],
    "untils"  : [-1633273200000, -1615132800000, -1601823600000, -1583683200000, -880210800000, -820519140000, -812653140000, -796845540000, -84380400000, -68659200000, null],
    "offsets" : [420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420, 360, 420]
}

// packed
"America/Phoenix|MST MDT MWT|70 60 60|01010202010|-261r0 1nX0 11B0 1nX0 SgN0 4Al1 Ap0 1db0 SWqX 1cL0"
```

### 8. Build tests for each zone.

```
grunt data-tests
```

Reads data from `temp/collect/latest.json` and constructs unit tests for each
zone. This uses `temp/collect/latest.json` instead of `data/unpacked/latest.json`
in order to test both the times _one second before_ and _exactly at_
each time discontinuity.

Without a version, this will write files to the `tests` directory.
If this is run with a specific version (`grunt data-tests:2014d`), the files will
be written to `temp/tests/<version>` instead.

### All tasks

For ease of use, all these tasks are bundled into one task. This is the preferred way
to compile the data.

```
grunt data       # run tasks 1-8 on the latest release
grunt data:2014c # run tasks 1-8 on the 2014c release
grunt data:2014d # run tasks 1-8 on the 2014d release
```



### Steps to release a new version

1. Create a new branch like release_0.X.X from master and do this:

```grunt data```

2. Change version in:

- package.json
- composer.json
- moment-timezone.js
- moment-timezone-utils.js

3. Do this:

```
grunt build
grunt uglify
npm run test
```

4. Open pull request from your branch into develop
5. Merge changes from your branch into develop branch
6. Merge changes from develop into master branch
7. Create a new release here https://github.com/moment/moment-timezone/releases
8. Do npm publish to publish changes to NPM
9. Also, you should update version of moment-timezone in package.json file of
this repository https://github.com/moment/momentjs.com to the latest version.
It will change version on the website https://momentjs.com/timezone/
